# Crowdfunding to enable releasing new versions

## Background

When I, [simeg](https://github.com/simeg), started involving myself in this
project I didn't know anything about how to deploy Safari Extensions, I was
simply happy to fix all the problems I was personally experiencing with the
extension. I thought to myself "Nice, now I can fix all the bugs, deploy a new
version and maybe others can use this version too". I was wrong, it was not
that easy. I was slightly shocked when I realised we needed someone with an
Apple Developer Program (ADP) membership in order to compile a new version.
Note that at this point you could simply compile a new version in Safari and
share that `.safariextz` binary. I lost motivation because I couldn't figure
out a nice way to deploy new versions without being dependent on other people.
After some time I came up with the idea to publicly ask for someone with a
membership that would help.

### Receiving help from the community

After about a month of asking for help in the README of the project I got
e-mails from several people asking what they could do to help. During this time
Apple had changed how they handle Safari Extensions and made it more strict.
Not only do they require a ADP membership, but you must also submit your
extension for review, much like you would with an App for the App Store. When
we realised this we also realised that the account used for publishing the
extension to the Safari Extensions Gallery would be linked with the extension,
making the future of the extension dependent on the owner of that account. That
is the reason why I would like to avoid that, if possible.

### Crowdfunding is the solution

E-mailing back and forth with one of the people offering to help there was the
idea to crowdfund for a ADP membership. At least that way the account would be
in the name of someone maintaining the extension.

(More background in [#100](https://github.com/guyht/vimari/issues/100))

## Proposal going forward

I propose we use [Ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com) as a crowdfunding platform in order
to collect $99 for a ADP membership to be registered in my name (Simon
Egersand). Ideally the account would not be tied to any individual but instead
a group of individuals, but it's not possible to have an membership for an
organization without providing a D-U-N-S number. And such a number is tied to a
legal entity, and requires you to apply for it. All of this information can be
found on [Apple's
website](https://developer.apple.com/support/compare-memberships/).

I chose Ko-fi because it deals with one-off payments nicely - there's no fee
involved and the money is payed out immediately. Before making this decision I
reviewed other platforms such as [Open
Collective](https://opencollective.com/), [flattr](https://flattr.com/) and
[Liberapay](https://en.liberapay.com/). None of them offer one-off payments but
instead focus on recurrent donations, something that is not interesting for us.

I've read the [terms the extension needs to
fulfill](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/#extensions)
to be accepted to the Safari Extension Gallery, and in my opinion we fulfill
them all. Please read them carefully.

## If we reach our goal

If we reach the goal and successfully raise all the money we need, what
happens? First of all, I will register my account for a ADP membership and then
make all the changes required to publish the extension to the Safari Extension
Gallery (some changes are required, see
[#100](https://github.com/guyht/vimari/issues/100)). But what happens after
that?

I commit to being active in maintaining this extension for the next year. That
means I will work on fixing bugs, developing new features, increasing test
coverage and generally improving the code. And I welcome everyone to join me!

## How to donate

Use this button to donate one or multiple coffees, every coffee is worth $3!

[![ko-fi](https://www.ko-fi.com/img/donate_sm.png)](https://ko-fi.com/T6T0FK7H)

Thank you,
Simon
